Storefront API docs (#5291)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: 12/umbraco-commerce/reference/storefront-api/endpoints/checkout.md

# Checkout Endpoints

The checkout endpoints provide ways of performing a checkout process against an Order. The Storefront API supports two ways of checking out an order, one using hosted checkout pages, and a more advanced option for inline payment processing.

## Hosted

> With the hosted checkout flow it is required that before redirecting to the payment gateway a checkout token should be generated. This token is passed to the pay endpoint to ensure that only the given order can be processed in response to the checkout request. The pay endpoint should then be launched in a WebView with this token which will then redirect to the given Orders payment gateway for payment capture. To determine the outcome of the payment developers should monitor the WebViews URL which will be redirected to the same pay endpoint URL with either a `/completed`, `/canceled` or `/errored` suffix.

Reviewer: Hi @mattbrailsford 👋 

We have a styleguide to follow to make the documentation more readable, where one of guides is to write [shorter sentences ](https://docs.umbraco.com/welcome/contribute/style-guide#long-sentences )with max 25 words. 

It seems in this case, these 2 sentences have more than 25 words. Can you please look into them? 😊 

_"The pay endpoint should then be launched in a WebView with this token which will then redirect to the given Orders payment gateway for payment capture." -_- my suggestion here would be to remove first "then"

To determine the outcome of the payment developers should monitor the WebViews URL which will be redirected to the same pay endpoint URL with either a `/completed`, `/canceled` or `/errored` suffix. - my suggestion here would be to split this into 2 sentences like so:
 "to determine the outcome of the payment developers should monitor the WebViews URL. Then they will be will be redirected to the same pay endpoint URL with either a `/completed`, `/canceled` or `/errored` suffix."

Author: Updated 👍

{% swagger src="../../../.gitbook/assets/storefront_swagger.json" path="/umbraco/commerce/storefront/api/v1/checkout/{orderId}/token" method="get" %}
[storefront_swagger.json](../../../.gitbook/assets/storefront_swagger.json)
{% endswagger %}

{% swagger src="../../../.gitbook/assets/storefront_swagger.json" path="/umbraco/commerce/storefront/api/v1/checkout/{orderId}/pay/{token}" method="get" %}
[storefront_swagger.json](../../../.gitbook/assets/storefront_swagger.json)
{% endswagger %}

## Inline

> With the inline checkout flow, it is left to the implementing developer to perform payment capture. Before a capture can begin, the order should be initialized using the `initialize` endpoint which prepares the Order for capture. To aid developers, the `initialize` endpoint will return the settings of the given Orders selected payment method, along with details of any expected metadata needed by the payment provider. Developers can then use this data to perform an inline capture operation and then call the `confirm` endpoint when the capture is successful, passing back any metadata captured.

Reviewer: these 2 sentences need to be shorten to 25 words as well 🙈 

1. To aid developers, the `initialize` endpoint will return the settings of the given Orders selected payment method, along with details of any expected metadata needed by the payment provider.
2. Developers can then use this data to perform an inline capture operation and then call the `confirm` endpoint when the capture is successful, passing back any metadata captured.

Author: Updated 👍

> # Storefront Checkout API Endpoints
> 
> The checkout endpoints provide ways of performing a checkout process against an Order. The Storefront API supports two ways of checking out an order, one using hosted checkout pages, and a more advanced option for inline payment processing.
> 
> ## Hosted
> 
> With the hosted checkout flow it is required that before redirecting to the payment gateway a checkout token should be generated. This token is passed to the pay endpoint to ensure that only the given order can be processed in response to the checkout request. The pay endpoint should then be launched in a WebView with this token which will then redirect to the given Orders payment gateway for payment capture. To determine the outcome of the payment developers should monitor the WebViews URL which will be redirected to the same pay endpoint URL with either a `/completed`, `/canceled` or `/errored` suffix.
> 
> {% swagger src=".gitbook/assets/storefront_swagger.json" path="/umbraco/commerce/storefront/api/v1/checkout/{orderId}/token" method="get" %}
> [storefront_swagger.json](.gitbook/assets/storefront_swagger.json)
> {% endswagger %}
> 
> {% swagger src=".gitbook/assets/storefront_swagger.json" path="/umbraco/commerce/storefront/api/v1/checkout/{orderId}/pay/{token}" method="get" %}
> [storefront_swagger.json](.gitbook/assets/storefront_swagger.json)
> {% endswagger %}
> 
> ## Inline
> 
> With the inline checkout flow it is left to the implementing developer to perform payment capture. Before a capture can begine, the order should be initialized using the `initialize` endpoint which prepare the Order for capture. To aid developers, the `initialize` endpoint will return the settings of the given Orders selected payment method, along with details of any expected meta data needed by the payment provider. Developers can then use this data to perform an inline capture opperation and then call the `confirm` endpoint when the capture is successull, passing back any meta data captured.
> 
> {% swagger src=".gitbook/assets/storefront_swagger.json" path="/umbraco/commerce/storefront/api/v1/checkout/{orderId}/initialize" method="get" %}
> [storefront_swagger.json](.gitbook/assets/storefront_swagger.json)
> {% endswagger %}
> 
> {% swagger src=".gitbook/assets/storefront_swagger.json" path="/umbraco/commerce/storefront/api/v1/checkout/{orderId}/confirm" method="post" %}
> [storefront_swagger.json](.gitbook/assets/storefront_swagger.json)
> {% endswagger %}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Storefront Checkout API Endpoints

The checkout endpoints provide ways of performing a checkout process against an Order. The Storefront API supports two ways of checking out an order, one using hosted checkout pages, and a more advanced option for inline payment processing.

## Hosted

With the hosted checkout flow it is required that before redirecting to the payment gateway a checkout token should be generated. This token is passed to the pay endpoint to ensure that only the given order can be processed in response to the checkout request. The pay endpoint should then be launched in a WebView with this token which will then redirect to the given Orders payment gateway for payment capture. To determine the outcome of the payment developers should monitor the WebViews URL which will be redirected to the same pay endpoint URL with either a `/completed`, `/canceled` or `/errored` suffix.

{% swagger src=".gitbook/assets/storefront_swagger.json" path="/umbraco/commerce/storefront/api/v1/checkout/{orderId}/token" method="get" %}
[storefront_swagger.json](.gitbook/assets/storefront_swagger.json)
{% endswagger %}

{% swagger src=".gitbook/assets/storefront_swagger.json" path="/umbraco/commerce/storefront/api/v1/checkout/{orderId}/pay/{token}" method="get" %}
[storefront_swagger.json](.gitbook/assets/storefront_swagger.json)
{% endswagger %}

## Inline

With the inline checkout flow, it is left to the implementing developer to perform payment capture. Before a capture can begin, the order should be initialized using the `initialize` endpoint which prepares the Order for capture. To aid developers, the `initialize` endpoint will return the settings of the given Orders selected payment method, along with details of any expected metadata needed by the payment provider. Developers can then use this data to perform an inline capture operation and then call the `confirm` endpoint when the capture is successful, passing back any metadata captured.

{% swagger src=".gitbook/assets/storefront_swagger.json" path="/umbraco/commerce/storefront/api/v1/checkout/{orderId}/initialize" method="get" %}
[storefront_swagger.json](.gitbook/assets/storefront_swagger.json)
{% endswagger %}

{% swagger src=".gitbook/assets/storefront_swagger.json" path="/umbraco/commerce/storefront/api/v1/checkout/{orderId}/confirm" method="post" %}
[storefront_swagger.json](.gitbook/assets/storefront_swagger.json)
{% endswagger %}
```
